FactoryFlow DBMS — Examiner Q&A
================================
Simple answers for viva / presentation questions.


Q: What is your project about?
A: FactoryFlow is a factory management system with a database. It tracks employees,
   production batches, product defects, and performance. Managers can add records,
   view reports, and get AI-powered insights — all from one web app.


Q: What problem does it solve?
A: Most factories manage data in Excel sheets or on paper. This causes:
   - No real-time visibility into production
   - Manual calculation of efficiency and defects
   - No history of promotions or role changes
   - Slow decision-making due to scattered data
   FactoryFlow puts everything in one central database with live dashboards.


Q: What technology did you use?
A: - Frontend: Next.js (React) — the web pages users see
   - Backend: Next.js API routes — server code that talks to the database
   - Database: PostgreSQL — stores all factory data permanently
   - ORM: Prisma — converts JavaScript code into SQL queries automatically
   - AI: Groq API (Llama model) — answers questions and performs CRUD via chat
   - Charts: Apache ECharts — visualizes production trends and efficiency


Q: What is an ORM? Why did you use Prisma?
A: ORM = Object Relational Mapper. Instead of writing raw SQL like
   "SELECT * FROM employees WHERE status='ACTIVE'", you write:
   prisma.employee.findMany({ where: { status: 'ACTIVE' } })
   Prisma converts this into proper SQL automatically. It also prevents
   SQL injection attacks and makes the code easier to read and maintain.


Q: What are the main database tables?
A: - Employee: stores worker details (name, code, department, role, status)
   - Production: each batch record (units made, defects, shift, date, product)
   - Product: list of products manufactured
   - Department: factory departments (Assembly, Quality, Packaging, etc.)
   - Role: job roles with levels (Level 1 = entry, Level 5 = senior)
   - PromotionHistory: every time an employee was promoted (old role → new role)


Q: How are the tables related?
A: - Each Production record belongs to one Employee and one Product
   - Each Employee belongs to one Department and has one Role
   - PromotionHistory links an Employee to their old and new Role
   This is a relational database — data is linked by foreign keys (IDs).


Q: What is unique about your project?
A: Three things that make it stand out:
   1. AI Chat with CRUD — users can type "update email of EMP001" and the AI
      verifies the employee code in the database, confirms it found the record,
      then executes the update automatically. No forms needed.
   2. Real-time event bus — when any page adds or edits data, all other open
      pages refresh instantly without any page reload. Like a live feed.
   3. Smart CSV import — upload any CSV file from any source. The system
      automatically detects column names using fuzzy matching, maps them to
      the right database fields, and resolves unknown values before importing.


Q: How does the AI work?
A: When a user sends a message:
   1. The server fetches live data from the database (employee list, production
      stats, today's output) using 10 parallel queries.
   2. This data + the user's message is sent to Groq AI (a fast LLM API).
   3. The AI responds with an answer. If the user asked to do something
      (add/update/delete), the AI includes a special action block in its reply.
   4. The frontend detects this action block, shows a "Confirm & Execute" button.
   5. User clicks confirm → the action runs against the real database → UI updates.


Q: How does the AI verify an employee before updating?
A: The AI is instructed (via the system prompt) to:
   1. Extract the employee code from the user's message (e.g. EMP001).
   2. Check that code against the employee list in the prompt.
   3. If found → say "Found [Name], updating..." and generate the action.
   4. If not found → say "No employee with that code exists."
   5. If no code given → ask the user to provide it first.
   This prevents the AI from updating the wrong person.


Q: What is the real-time event bus?
A: It is a simple publish/subscribe system built in lib/events.js.
   - When the production page adds a record, it "emits" PRODUCTION_CHANGED.
   - The dashboard is "listening" for that event.
   - When it hears the event, it clears its cache and re-fetches data from the API.
   - The dashboard KPIs update in under a second — no page refresh needed.
   This is similar to how WhatsApp shows new messages without you refreshing.


Q: What is the smart CSV import?
A: Users can upload any CSV file (from Kaggle, Excel, etc.). The system:
   1. Auto-detects if it's employee data or production data (scores each column header).
   2. Uses fuzzy matching (Levenshtein distance algorithm) to match CSV columns
      to database fields — e.g. "emp_name" → employee name field.
   3. Shows unknown values (e.g. product names not in DB) and lets user decide:
      map to existing, create new, or skip.
   4. Creates any new records (products, departments) before inserting rows.
   This means any CSV from any format can be imported without manual mapping.


Q: What is fuzzy matching?
A: Fuzzy matching means finding the closest match even if the text isn't exact.
   Example: CSV has column "Emp_Code", database expects "employeeCode".
   The algorithm calculates how many character edits it takes to go from one word
   to another (Levenshtein distance). A score of 100 = exact match, 80+ = likely match.
   This is the same technique used in spell-checkers and search engines.


Q: How do you calculate efficiency?
A: Efficiency = (Units Produced - Defects) / Units Produced × 100
   Example: 1000 units made, 50 defective → (1000 - 50) / 1000 × 100 = 95% efficiency.
   This is calculated in real time from the production table for each department,
   product, and employee.


Q: What is anomaly detection?
A: The system checks the last 60 days of production data.
   It calculates the average defect rate and standard deviation.
   Any day where defects are more than 2 standard deviations above average
   is flagged as an anomaly. The Groq AI also analyzes the pattern and
   assigns a risk level: low / medium / high / critical.


Q: How does role promotion work?
A: Each role has a level number (1 = entry, 5 = senior).
   To promote an employee, the new role must have a higher level than current.
   The system creates a PromotionHistory record storing the old role and new role.
   The employee's roleId is updated. The promotion appears in the PDF export report.


Q: How do you generate the PDF report?
A: The system uses Puppeteer (a headless Chrome browser) on the server.
   It loads the report page, navigates slide by slide using Reveal.js,
   takes a screenshot of each slide, then combines all screenshots into a PDF
   using pdf-lib. This ensures charts and images render exactly as seen on screen.


Q: What happens if the database has no data?
A: Every page has a loading skeleton (animated placeholder) shown while fetching.
   If there is no data, the page shows an empty state with a helpful message.
   The AI also handles this — if asked about production with no records, it says
   "No production records found" instead of making up numbers.


Q: What security measures did you add?
A: - Prisma ORM prevents SQL injection automatically.
   - API routes validate all input before writing to the database.
   - Employee delete cascades — deleting an employee also removes their
     production records to avoid orphaned data.
   - Soft delete (isDeleted flag) is used so data isn't permanently lost
     until explicitly cleared.


Q: What would you improve if you had more time?
A: - User authentication (login/logout with roles — admin, manager, viewer)
   - Mobile app version using React Native
   - Email notifications when anomalies are detected
   - More detailed financial analytics (cost per unit, margin per product)
   - Scheduled AI reports sent automatically every week


Q: How many records can the system handle?
A: PostgreSQL can handle millions of records. The system is optimized with:
   - Indexed foreign keys for fast joins
   - Paginated API responses (the production table shows pages of 50 rows)
   - Caching (data is reused for 5 minutes before re-fetching)
   - Parallel queries (multiple DB queries run at the same time)


Q: What is the difference between your project and a simple CRUD app?
A: A basic CRUD app only creates, reads, updates, deletes data.
   FactoryFlow adds:
   - AI assistant that reads live data and executes actions via conversation
   - Real-time event system that syncs all pages instantly
   - Smart CSV importer with fuzzy matching and value reconciliation
   - Analytics engine (efficiency, defect rates, anomaly detection)
   - AI forecasting (predicts next month's production using historical trends)
   - PDF report generation with charts rendered to image
   These features make it a production-grade management system, not just a form app.
